[ASIRPA]
Karinpani.
When the sakura flowers
start blooming.
Deer grow new coats,
and it's said to be a sign
that their
meat will be tasty.
If you ask me, that's
a pretty good sign!
[ASIRPA] Wrapping the bark
of the cherry blossom tree
around your bow
makes it more durable.
It's used on makiris
and quivers, too.
Or even to bind the boards
of an itaomacip together.
[SUGIMOTO] I never knew there
were so many uses for one tree.
You call that a mayumi, right?
We call it a kasupni.
It translates to "ladle tree."
Its wood is hard
and fine-grained.
Perfect for cooking utensils.
It's the same wood kite
are made out of.
As well as ceremonial
arrows called heperay,
which we use during
our bear rituals.
These special arrows
are said to lead the cub
to where the kamuy dwell.
[SUGIMOTO] Sounds like
that's an important tree.
[USAMI huffing]
[KIKUTA] Hey, Usami.
Dial it back a bit.
You're gonna tear it off.
It's working, and I don't
hear you coming up
with anything better, okay?
So let me focus!
Out of all the 7th members,
I thought Ogata was
the biggest weirdo, but--
[USAMI] Don't you dare
compare me to that bastard!
He's just a wimpy,
snot-nosed brat!
Fuck yeah!
[huffs]
Do you remember
Ogata's half-brother,
Lieutenant Hanazawa?
He was one of the guys who
died at Battle of Hill 203
during the war.
Yeah? Oh, fuck!
[yelling]
Of course I remember him.
[USAMI pants]
Well, get this...
When Sugimoto threw Ogata
into a freezing river,
he was sent to the hospital.
[OGATA groaning]
Yuusaku... It's you...
Sorry, Yuusaku isn't here.
[USAMI huffs] He was calling out
the name of his brother,
who he had murdered!
[KIKUTA] Are you saying he
killed Lieutenant Hanazawa?
Huh? I thought you knew
all about that already.
But why would he do it?
Seemed like they got along well.
--[laughs]
--[papping]
The Lieutenant says
not to kill him?
But that doesn't make sense.
If Yuusaku dies,
then naturally,
you'll inherit all his
father's love in his place.
And he'd be able to control
Lieutenant General Hanazawa.
That must be frustrating.
I suppose he's decided Yuusaku's
more useful alive than dead.
It makes sense,
since everyone worships him.
Only because of
who his father is.
They all think he's some
sort of saint, don't they?
[OGATA]
That's exactly right.
Once Lieutenant Tsurumi
sees he's not,
I'm sure he'll change
his mind about killing him.
Everybody's the same
underneath the skin.
Tell me, do you feel any sense
of guilt over killing Russians?
[USAMI]
Can't say I do.
[OGATA] If you get killed, it
must be because you deserved it.
[USAMI]
Yup. Pretty much.
[OGATA] Everybody has
the potential to do evil.
You shouldn't feel guilty for
taking the life of someone
like that, right?
[USAMI]
Not in the slightest.
Just because your parents loved
you a little bit more,
that doesn't make you
a better person.
No argument here.
[OGATA] So there's nothing
wrong with me, then.
[MAN 49A grunting]
It's time to prove yourself.
I want to see you kill!
I can't do it!
Too bad--it looks like your
plan to show everyone
who he really was
didn't work out!
Aw, man, that's not good.
Is it possible that I'm
the weird one here?
Maybe because I'm
an unloved bastard?
No, wait. Hold on.
What if I'm wrong
about the situation,
and my father
actually did love me?
But that would mean there's
no fundamental difference
between me and Yuusaku.
And if that's true...
There's no way that he's
the saint he pretends to be.
He can try to deny it all
he wants, but he's got
the potential to take
a life without feeling
the slightest twinge of guilt.
The question is, how do I find
out if Father really loves me?
All I have to do is
get rid of Yuusaku.
Isn't that right?
I think so.
[gunshot echoes]
[USAMI] And then, everything
ended up working out
like we planned! Would
Lieutenant General Hanazawa
now feel love towards
his bastard child
who he had already abandoned?
--Can you guess the answer?
--[fapping]
His feelings didn't
change even a little bit!
[giggles]
Now Ogata's got permanent blue
balls 'cause Yuusaku died pure,
and there's nothing
he can do about it!
Isn't that precious?!
--[laughs]
--[splurt]
[KIKUTA]
Sure. I've heard enough.
[USAMI sighs]
[USAMI] I know you were
working in the shadows,
egging on the traitors
within our ranks.
What is it about
Lieutenant Tsurumi
that's not good enough
for you? Hmm?
Come on. It's not
'cause of that.
We may have lost a brave
fighter, but I'm confident
you'll step into his shoes.
You've done very well,
Hyakunosuke Ogata.
[USAMI growling]
Tell me. Why did you agree to
kill the Lieutenant General?
Did you think it would
make you the head of the 7th?
Yeah, right. I wanted to ask him
some things before he died.
Do you really expect me
to believe that?
Seems to me you think if you
can gather more influence,
you'll earn the
Lieutenant's love.
Not at all.
Look into the
Manchurian railroad.
Your father got in the way of
Lieutenant Tsurumi's plans,
that's why he had to go.
You killed Yuusaku,
but you still couldn't get
your father to love you.
And then you killed your own
father, but you couldn't get
Lieutenant Tsurumi
to love you either!
No matter what you do,
nobody will ever love you,
and it drives you crazy!
Is that why you've turned
your back on the Lieutenant?!
Because you blame him?!
Don't forget your place.
We're Lieutenant Tsurumi's
pawns to use has he pleases.
You should learn from
Sergeant Tsukishima!
He knows damn well
he's a pawn and accepts it!
Lieutenant Tsurumi.
That was great.
Simply incredible!
What are you talking about?
[USAMI] When you called Sergeant
Tsukishima "a comrade-in-arms,"
you said that so everybody
could hear, didn't you?
Because of those words,
everybody is in
love with you now.
The 7th's morale
is through the roof.
They're all ready
to band together
and make your dream
a reality! Yes!
I'm so jealous!
I'd be the happiest man in
the whole world if you used me
as a pawn like you did him,
Lieutenant Tsurumi!
I can't think of a more
noble cause than that!
That's where you're
mistaken, Usami.
I don't think of
my men as pawns.
Ah, of course.
My mistake, sir.
It's just that, if you told me I
was your comrade-in-arms,
I'd burst out laughing!
You, me, Sergeant Tsukishima,
Yuusaku and that rich kid Koito;
each of us are nothing
more than pawns to him!
You aren't even
worthy of opposing
Lieutenant Tsurumi's grand plan!
You're obsessed with him 'cause
he's the only one who pretends
to give a shit about you!
I know what's going
through your head!
It's just so obvious!
Let's say you're
right about that.
What?
If I were to play along with
your feeble-minded delusions,
even though we're all his pawns,
you'd have to be the cheapest,
most pathetic piece
on the board.
[USAMI grunts]
--[thunk]
--[groans]
[grunts]
Are you all right,
Private Usami?
What happened?
He smacked me with a bedpan.
[SOLDIER 49A] Don't worry,
Private Mishima's
going after him.
Did you hear him?
How dare that traitor
call me the cheapest pawn.
[SOLDIER 49A] Sorry.
I didn't catch any of that.
He doesn't know
what he's talking about.
I know you're still out there,
waiting for your chance
to strike! Fuck!
You're going to show your face
again one of these days!
You can't help yourself!
I won't let you trouble
Lieutenant Tsurumi anymore!
[gunshot echoes]
[USHIYAMA]
Hey!
Ogata caught us
a duck for dinner.
[OGATA] I'm finally used to
shooting with my left hand.
[HIJIKATA]
That's excellent news.
Our sniper's made
a complete recovery, then?
--[OGATA] Not quite.
--[HIJIKATA] Hmm?
[OGATA] You can only
call somebody a sniper
when they shoot people.
[OOSAWA]
It's strange.
Sugimoto's always
around Asirpa, huh?
She's a good hunter
and keeps him fed.
It makes sense to me.
I still don't understand why
you're traveling around
with the likes of those two.
Making enemies of the 7th
Division and Toshizou Hijikata
is a risky game.
You're the kind of man who'd
bail as soon as things
looked dangerous.
Oh, come on.
You're overthinking it.
With fewer people on our side,
we each get a bigger share.
You really think they'll win
this race for the stolen gold?
[SHIRAISHI sighs]
[grunts]
I noticed something else.
That girl's got the same deep
blue eyes as Nopperabo,
doesn't she?
Huh, I guess she does.
Lots of Ainu have Russian
blood in them, though,
so that's not all that
uncommon to see.
It makes sense we don't trust
each other quite yet.
But we can't work
together without sharing
all the information we've got.
You can appreciate that, right?
[SHIRAISHI]
This is just a guess.
But something tells me that
Asirpa's already figured out
how to crack the
tattooed skin code.
I dunno.
Has she mentioned
anything to you?
No.
I see...
Sorry to burst your bubble,
but they don't trust me
that much, either.
Look at this, Shiraishi.
[grunts]
What's this supposed to be?
A gold coin?
[OOSAWA] It was found alongside
gold dust in Lake Shikotsu.
Those markings.
Don't you think they
look like our tattoos?
[ASIRPA]
An atkamuy!
Aw, just look at his little,
round head! So cute!
We could catch it and make
a pair of gloves for you!
No, thanks, I'm fine!
[ASIRPA] Atkamuy are
protectors of children.
They're always helping people.
Just like Horkewkamuy.
I actually first found
Retar around here
when he was still a cub.
[WILK]
That star there.
Along with that one, and the one
next to it make up kunociw,
the Bow constellation.
[ASIRPA]
I see it now!
[WILK]
That one's aynociw. "The Arrow."
Siarasarusikamuynokanociw.
A constellation shaped like
a long-tailed bear.
[gasps]
If you connect all those
stars over there,
what do they look like to you?
[ASIRPA]
Let's see...
It looks like a big dick!
A dick constellation...
I'm afraid not.
That one, it's part of
a horkewkamuy.
See? That's the front leg.
And there's the tail.
What kind of kamuy
are the horkew?
[WILK]
Hmm.
They are kamuy
that have vanished.
[ASIRPA]
It was only after I met Retar,
that I found out what a
Horkewkamuy looked like.
[SUGIMOTO]
I hope they can stay around.
And the next generation gets to
see what they look like, too.
I suppose Retar needs
to get busy, then.
Right? Let's go.
[ASIRPA chuckles]
[ASIRPA]
Aca's name...
Horkew Oskoni...
That has to be the key
to breaking the code.
He hid the Ainu name my mother
gave him into the answer.
Is someone like that really
capable of killing so many Ainu
and stealing their gold?
Is that why Kiroranke Nispa
killed Aca?
The gold changed the fates
of everyone who got too close.
And brought them nothing
but misfortune.
Would finding the stolen gold
really be a good thing?
As long as I keep the secret to
solving the code to myself,
Sugimoto has to stay with me.
I can act as a shield
to keep him safe.
I wonder if it'd be better
if we never found the gold.
And stayed together forever.
--[ASIRPA] Sugimoto.
--[SUGIMOTO] Hmm?
[ASIRPA] Do you know
what you're going to do
after the hunt for
the gold is over?
Will you go back home,
and spend your life with
the person you loved?
[ASIRPA] Sugimoto will leave
once the gold is found.
There's no doubt about it.
[SUGIMOTO grunts]
Look behind you.
What are those?
[ASIRPA gasps]
--Over there, too!
--[gasps]
[SUGIMOTO] Why are there
are markings on all the trees
in this area?
We need to get out of here
immediately! Hurry, Sugimoto!
--[crackling]
--[gasping]
[cracking]
--[crashing]
--[birds twittering]
[gasping]
What the hell is going on?!
[gasps]
[panting]
--Gah!
--Ah--!
[gasps]
[OOSAWA] This is how they
fell trees in Hokkaido.
First, they make partial cuts
through all of the trunks,
then they knock one
of the trees down.
It falls and hits the others
like shogi pieces.
[SHIRAISHI grunts] Did you see
if Sugimoto and Asirpa
--got out of the forest in time?
--[OOSAWA] Huh?
[SHIRAISHI]
Don't just stand there!
We have to make sure
they're both okay!
--Can you guys hear me?!
--[OOSAWA] Hey!
[SHIRAISHI]
Please be all right!
[SUGIMOTO]
Wake up!
Open your eyes!
[ASIRPA groans]
You're bleeding...
Are you okay...?
[SUGIMOTO]
Don't worry about me.
How are you? Tell me--
are you feeling any pain?
Can you still move?
[ASIRPA groans]
I don't know...
Wake up! Asirpa!
We're gonna make it out of here!
[HAJIME growls]
[KOITO shrieks]
General Togo!
General Togo is mine again!
Welcome back, sir!
[KOITO snarls]
[HAJIME]
Hmm?
Good luck ever getting
promoted, Tsukishima!
[HAJIME]
You're an awfully sore loser.
[KOITO]
Hmph!
Anyway, Lieutenant Tsurumi
sent new orders for us
to wait at Sapporo.
He's giving up
the search for Asirpa.
Instead--
[gasps]
[KOITO]
Someone you know?
No, sir. But something
about her seems dangerous.
We should be careful.
[SOFIA growls]
[SOFIA]
I have to control myself...
Finding Asirpa comes
before getting revenge!
[SUGIMOTO]
Is anyone there?!
Shiraishi!
[ASIRPA] Will you go back home,
and spend your life
with the person you loved?
Asirpa. Her name was Ume.
[ASIRPA gasps]
[SUGIMOTO] Years ago, the two of
us were supposed to get married.
But after my family died from
tuberculosis, it never happened.
She ended up marrying Toraji.
We had been childhood
friends together.
I knew he'd take care
of her and treat her well.
But she contracted
an eye disease.
And the cure for
it was expensive.
[gasping]
[grunting, yelling]
[SUGIMOTO]
That idiot...
Funny... If I told Umeko I was
the one who saved your life,
do you think she'd
actually believe me...?
[SHIRAISHI]
Sugimoto!
Asirpa!
[panting]
Are you okay?!
Come on, answer me!
You sure are worried
about that guide of yours.
I'm betting she's the key
to solving the tattoo code.
She's Nopperabo's
daughter, isn't she?!
You can't hide
the truth from me!
Shut up about that!
Who gives a shit?!
We've got other problems!
Once this is done,
I'm going to keep my promise.
I'll go home and give her
the money she needs.
That's the most "Sugimoto"
reason to want the gold
I've ever heard.
So that means we have to
get it, no matter what.
Even if we find the gold,
I'll stay by your side
until you're satisfied.
We'll be partners to the end.
[ASIRPA] To be honest, that's
not the answer I really wanted.
Regardless, we need
to get out of here.
I'm sure the others
are coming to save us.
They might have
gotten trapped, too.
[SUGIMOTO]
They probably did.
But I know they'll come looking
for us, no matter what.
[ASIRPA]
Oh, yeah.
Shiraishi also wants the gold.
But in a different way
than you do.
He just wants it for himself.
You're not wrong about that.
But he's a surprisingly
decent person.
He stayed by you the whole time
you were in Karafuto.
Don't you think
we should tell him?
Shiraishi deserves to know.
That you've already figured out
the key to solving
the tattooed skin code.
Yeah. I agree.
I actually could have
told him about it earlier,
but I missed my chance.
Huh?
The atkamuy came to save us!
[sobbing] I'm so glad all that
stuff went though in Karafuto
wasn't for nothing!
It's Shiraishi!
I can't believe
you found us so quickly.
[SHIRAISHI]
Mister Hood saw you get buried!
Hey! Stop!
My friends are trapped
underneath all the trees
you guys felled!
[WOODCUTTER 49A]
What did you say?!
Where?!
[gasps]
The kamuy that were here...
Where do you think
they all ran off to?
I never realized the
forest looked like this
from the other side.
If you can still call it that.
[ASIRPA]
We cut trees down, too.
Just like the Japanese.
We kill deer, bears, and wolves.
We even sell their pelts.
Nobody can blame you for living,
or for wanting a good life.
But the key is to
not take too much.
When we hunt, we don't
harvest all the meat.
We leave a little, so the
mountains can keep thriving.
That includes herbs, too.
That way, there'll
be more next year.
It's a practice
we've always kept.
As long as we leave
a little behind,
our kamuy won't disappear.
I remember that's what Aca said.
Hey, Botaro.
Show Asirpa the gold coin you
found, she might recognize it.
After all, she is
Nopperabo's daughter.
Shut up, Shiraishi.
There's no hiding it.
He figured it out
a long time ago.
[OOSAWA] This was at
the bottom of Lake Shikotsu.
You can have it if you want.
Look at the pattern.
Doesn't it kind of
look like our tattoos?
I bet Wilk must've
made it somehow.
This marking...
I think it might be Ainu.
It means "in turn."
Perhaps "crossing paths"?
Maybe it's from those
who found the gold?
After they brought their
treasure together in one place,
they could've melted it down.
To celebrate the fact that
they were one step closer
to their dream of having
their own nation.
[ASIRPA]
While they were in Russia,
Aca told Sofia that the Ainu and
the other Far Eastern minorities
had to work together.
If Aca held this coin with him
until the day it sank
into Lake Shikotsu, it means
his desire to protect
the Ainu people never wavered.
He would never try to kill
the people he was working
so hard to save.
Aca didn't kill those Ainu.
I understand now.
I know what it is I have to do.
To save my people.